---
title: "Jump-Start Writing Hacks"
date: 2019-09-20T22:00:00+01:00
draft: false
---

Recently I was given the gift of Spotify. Which is great, because I use music for pretty much everything: yoga, running, writing… And since I have been trying to get the most out of my time, I have now taken a liking to podcasts – a bit late for the party, I know, but better late than never, right?

Podcasts are a great way to get some information in your brain almost without realising it. I had an idea for this precise article while listening to two episodes of two separate podcasts, while doing chores around the house – so although I wasn’t giving it my full attention, I still managed to retain some pertinent information. (This is fascinating to me, so do expect some learning about learning posts in the future.)

So, the podcasts in question are Writer’s Group Therapy and Writer’s Routine, specifically Session 5 and #20, respectively. Both great podcasts, worth giving them a listen. (I am currently going over quite a few podcasts on Writing, so I might write about this is further detail soon).

In Session 5, the hosts talk about strategies to overcome the dreaded Writer’s Block. First of all, having other people discuss it makes me feel less bad. I tend to self-deprecate whenever I get stuck and eventually you get so stuck on being stuck that you just… get stucker, I guess.

As for the Writer’s Routine #20, the host brings us insights of writer Anthony Horowitz’s routine. One of the things that stuck with me is that Horowitz says he tries to keep his routine as diversified as he can, because writing in itself (as much as we love it) is quite a monotonous mechanical task, so he tries to keep everything else loosey loose. Another thing he also shared is that he tries to keep his office as geared towards his writing activities as possible, so that he can just get started without losing too much time.

As someone who has struggled quite intensely with writer’s block, hearing other writer’s experiences, specially from different kinds of writers – authors, screenwriters – just puts everything into perspective.

Other than the podcasts, there are also other techniques you can use to jump-start your writing if you feel stuck, such as but not limited to:

	Change it up, go write somewhere else: a coffee shop, a garden, a library, an arcade, anywhere you think you might get some words in. Makes you feel uncomfortable? Write about that.
	Nowadays there are some specific products geared at writers, such as the Writer Emergency Pack, which contains Idea Cards and Detail Cards.
	There are also some writing related games out there (I have Paperback on my shelves, for instance) and some games that although not specifically writing related, are still helpful, such as Story Cubes (which have several different sets, with different themes).
	Go on YouTube and watch some videos. A while ago I watched one of those screenwriter’s round tables and somebody told a story about a writer who, in order not to lose focus on current work but still won’t waste new ideas that would come up, would jot those ideas down on index card and throw them in an idea box, for future use.

These are just some suggestions, I am sure there are many more, and probably more effective. If there is any strong point I want to get across with this small entry, is that the best way to get over writer’s block is to write – and learning to be comfortable in producing quite horrible writing in the process. Writing is mostly perseverance in the face of a terrifying blank page.
